From torbenh at gmx.de  Thu Sep  6 16:36:53 2007
From: torbenh at gmx.de (torbenh at gmx.de)
Date: Thu, 6 Sep 2007 16:36:53 +0200
Subject: [Phat-dev] sorry for absence....
Message-ID: <20070906143653.GA29694@mobilat>


hi guys.
my internet connection was down.
now i have my own connection which should be much more reliable than my
old open WLAN connection.

i am online again, and the PhatScrolloscope with the demo player is
coming up.


-- 
torben Hohn
http://galan.sourceforge.net -- The graphical Audio language


From loki.davison at gmail.com  Thu Sep  6 23:54:33 2007
From: loki.davison at gmail.com (Loki Davison)
Date: Fri, 7 Sep 2007 06:54:33 +0900
Subject: [Phat-dev] sorry for absence....
In-Reply-To: <20070906143653.GA29694@mobilat>
References: <20070906143653.GA29694@mobilat>
Message-ID: <ec9314860709061454s2e28d6baja70f473848c9119b@mail.gmail.com>

On 9/6/07, torbenh at gmx.de <torbenh at gmx.de> wrote:
>
> hi guys.
> my internet connection was down.
> now i have my own connection which should be much more reliable than my
> old open WLAN connection.
>
> i am online again, and the PhatScrolloscope with the demo player is
> coming up.
>
>
> --
> torben Hohn
> http://galan.sourceforge.net -- The graphical Audio language
> _______________________________________________
> Phat-dev mailing list
> Phat-dev at lists.berlios.de
> https://lists.berlios.de/mailman/listinfo/phat-dev
>

I don' t think anyone on the list can complain too much. I've just
moved to korea and don't even have a computer here yet! Thinking of
getting the pretty cheap quad core intel. 130 Euro for the chip...

Loki


From torbenh at gmx.de  Fri Sep  7 10:06:05 2007
From: torbenh at gmx.de (torbenh at gmx.de)
Date: Fri, 7 Sep 2007 10:06:05 +0200
Subject: [Phat-dev] PhatAudiostream (was Re:  sorry for absence....)
In-Reply-To: <ec9314860709061454s2e28d6baja70f473848c9119b@mail.gmail.com>
References: <20070906143653.GA29694@mobilat>
	<ec9314860709061454s2e28d6baja70f473848c9119b@mail.gmail.com>
Message-ID: <20070907080605.GA7355@mobilat>

On Fri, Sep 07, 2007 at 06:54:33AM +0900, Loki Davison wrote:
> On 9/6/07, torbenh at gmx.de <torbenh at gmx.de> wrote:
> >
> > hi guys.
> > my internet connection was down.
> > now i have my own connection which should be much more reliable than my
> > old open WLAN connection.
> >
> > i am online again, and the PhatScrolloscope with the demo player is
> > coming up.
> >
> >
> > --
> > torben Hohn
> > http://galan.sourceforge.net -- The graphical Audio language
> > _______________________________________________
> > Phat-dev mailing list
> > Phat-dev at lists.berlios.de
> > https://lists.berlios.de/mailman/listinfo/phat-dev
> >
> 
> I don' t think anyone on the list can complain too much. I've just
> moved to korea and don't even have a computer here yet! Thinking of
> getting the pretty cheap quad core intel. 130 Euro for the chip...

:) wow. quad cores are coming....
well, at least you know i am here again. 

i wrote PhatScrolloscope which can display a PhatAudiostream.
PhatAudiostream is not a real stream yet (loads whole file into mem)

but it already uses libsamplerate and libsndfile.
So the main question is:

Add dependency to samplerate and sndfile ?
refactoring these dependencies out of PhatAudiostream would make it
virtual. 

I would like to commit them, but first want an ok for the depend.
IMO libsndfile and libsamplerate are fulfilled everywhere.

> 
> Loki
> _______________________________________________
> Phat-dev mailing list
> Phat-dev at lists.berlios.de
> https://lists.berlios.de/mailman/listinfo/phat-dev

-- 
torben Hohn
http://galan.sourceforge.net -- The graphical Audio language


From torbenh at gmx.de  Fri Sep  7 10:42:21 2007
From: torbenh at gmx.de (torbenh at gmx.de)
Date: Fri, 7 Sep 2007 10:42:21 +0200
Subject: [Phat-dev] phatrange and range widgets
In-Reply-To: <87r6lrzmcp.fsf@arnaudov.name>
References: <20070803085602.d0b9c72a.zenadsl6252@zen.co.uk>
	<87y7gtdnks.fsf@arnaudov.name>
	<20070803101331.dccf1de6.zenadsl6252@zen.co.uk>
	<87fy2yqkau.fsf@arnaudov.name> <1187247159.17595.248.camel@one>
	<87r6lrzmcp.fsf@arnaudov.name>
Message-ID: <20070907084221.GB7355@mobilat>

On Sat, Aug 25, 2007 at 06:04:54PM +0300, Nedko Arnaudov wrote:
> pete shorthose <zenadsl6252 at zen.co.uk> writes:
> 
> >> i have major problem with lacking ui user use cases and specification
> >> how things (should) work.
> >
> >> Some code i saw in phatknob is obviously
> >> broken, 
> >
> > which parts?
> 
> alternative (linear?) adjsutment with mouse button 3
> I've not investigated further but it does not work here.

it just calls mouse_update_mouse with a different flag, and i dont
understand what it does really ;)

lets try to break all this behaviour down to:

gdouble get_new_value( gdouble button_press_x, gdouble button_press_y
                       gdouble current_x,      gdouble current_y      );


this function would return a value between 0.0 and 1.0 which is then
scaled by the widget code and fed into the adjustment.

we still need some extra parameters (like widget size and such)

> 
> >>  i talked with thorwil about knobs
> >> in particular and i saw his try for this in his blog too and he said
> >> we have serious discrepancies about knobs ui user use. we should
> >> document them and take a plan to handle them. 
> >
> > i think this is already resolved (in as much as it can be)
> > the configurable input mapping should allow people to choose 
> > their preferred method. this is a deal breaker for me so 
> > if it's not resolved then we have problems. if you have 
> > more to add then we should run it past loki again.
> 
> allow people to choose - i agree (see below), but the point is that we
> need behaviours to choose from defined. Do you agree with definitions
> posted in thorwil blog? Or we have them documented elsewere?
> 
> >> Now how this interacts with phatrange? In my vision so far direct access
> >> methods should be implemented as proxy code to phatrange and not
> >> directly interacting with widget code and thus it may be possible to use
> >> some hairy macro to define them in all widgets. we need this because
> >> gobject model does not support method inheritance, or i am wrong?
> >
> > i'm not sure. we can chain up to access virtual parent
> > functions?. (cast the object to it's parent type)

yup. inheritance is possible with virtual methods. And chaining back to
them.

> 
> so this needs more investigation, i'm concerned for pyphat in particular


> 
> >> All gtkadjustment-less methods are implemented in phatrange by operating
> >> on gtkadjustment referenced in it.
> >> 
> >> I'm still thinking about what is best way for interoperation between
> >> gtkadjustment and mapper object. in particular, mapper, at least one i
> >> have currently (monothonic linear spline), has valid range and is
> >> somewhat incompatible with change of it, caused by external
> >> gtkadjustment. Do you think we need to support external gtkadjustments
> >> when we have mapper? I'd say no. Logarithm also has input restritions
> >> too, thus rendering -50..0 gtkadjustment unusable. At least directly,
> >> but i think mapper should operate on real range not artificial one, like
> >> (0..1).
> >
> > are there any cases where we cannot detect and translate 
> > problematic ranges? if there are or the detection and 
> > translation is too expensive then we are a bit screwed.
> 
> We can detect but i doubt we can translate. So we can reject external
> adjustment if it does not apply, but then, why someone would want
> external adjustment at all?
> 
> >> After more inspection of phatknob and those concept discrepancies we
> >> have, i now beleive we should come with configuration system in next
> >> release. I propose (and have motivation to work on) class code
> >> interacting with gconf. In particular I want to start with radial/linear
> >> knob behaviour, always with left mouse button.
> >
> > this should be configurable. it's the only way we can accommodate 
> > different user and developer preferences. (IOW, it's the only
> > way we can prevent me and thorsten from killing each other :P )
> >
> > i'd like to see targets (linear control, absolute control, menu popup
> > etc) be mappable to input combinations (buttons 1 - 5, and modifiers)
> >
> >> More configuration
> >> candidates are welcome. Lets collect them in this thread, I'll put them
> >> on wiki once we have plan.
> 
> I think we should have manual value input configurable too:
> 
> So far list of things that need to be configurable are:
>  * context menu popup
>  * linear control
>  * radial control
>  * absolute control
>  * manual input (edit box to entr value with keyboard)

how about being able to set the step size ?
like 10% per pixel on left and 1% per pixel on right ?

i am not convinced that gconf is the right way.
we should try to use the gtkrc system for this.
it would give us per Widget control including wildcards:

*.LFO.f step = 10
*.LFO.* step = 20

* step = 100

(the syntax is not right but you get the idea... :)

however i dont know whether the gtkrc system allows for modifiers to be
configured. perhaps we would need to write our own parser or use xml.

i already wrote a parser with GScanner and this is quite nice tool.

> 
> each mappable to mouse buttons 1-5 with modifiers (including double
> click as option). mappings are optional i.e. if not configured they
> are not available.
> 
> Mappings should be overridable by program (developer) using the widget.
> 
> I'm somewhat sceptical someone will want more than one method of mouse
> control active. So maybe it is better to have mouse drag mappable to
> button and have mouse drag behaviour as additional property.

i use both linear and radial on left and right mouse button very
much in galan. linear for fine tuning and radial for fast parameter
changes.

> 
> -- 
> Nedko Arnaudov <GnuPG KeyID: DE1716B0>



> _______________________________________________
> Phat-dev mailing list
> Phat-dev at lists.berlios.de
> https://lists.berlios.de/mailman/listinfo/phat-dev


-- 
torben Hohn
http://galan.sourceforge.net -- The graphical Audio language


From torbenh at gmx.de  Fri Sep  7 11:59:42 2007
From: torbenh at gmx.de (torbenh at gmx.de)
Date: Fri, 7 Sep 2007 11:59:42 +0200
Subject: [Phat-dev] fansliders
In-Reply-To: <87k5s4hnla.fsf@arnaudov.name>
References: <877ioaqk3j.fsf@arnaudov.name> <20070808184500.GD6920@mobilat>
	<ec9314860708090411y2b75741fu74697e117d8bc977@mail.gmail.com>
	<87k5s4hnla.fsf@arnaudov.name>
Message-ID: <20070907095942.GC7355@mobilat>

On Thu, Aug 09, 2007 at 03:57:53PM +0300, Nedko Arnaudov wrote:
> "Loki Davison" <loki.davison at gmail.com> writes:
> 
> > On 8/9/07, torbenh at gmx.de <torbenh at gmx.de> wrote:
> >> On Sun, Aug 05, 2007 at 02:47:12PM +0300, Nedko Arnaudov wrote:
> >> > Currently phatfansliders are unusable in by setup. At least they could
> >>
> >> same here. no hardware acceleration.
> >> but the fans are not transparent. nor the rest of the window, which is
> >> white here.
> >> Do i need to load some module for Xcomposite ?
> >> need more input before i can look into this stuff ;)
> >>
> >
> >
> > http://gentoo-wiki.com/TIP_Xorg_X11_and_Tranparency

okay. My computer becomes unusable when i turn on xcompmgr.
One screen update every 2 seconds :)

This is NOT the way to go.
Either you try to do the transparency rendering yourself or we find some
smart way to detect this.

Please Note that XComposite is only a way to get the contents of
windows. If i understand this correctly the xcompmgr then renders a view
of the visible windows. This is of course slow with software GL.

So it should be possible to have fansliders without xcompmgr but with
Composite.
ie. on fanslider start grab screen and incrementally render the fan.
this could also work without hardware GL. 
but this is not real transparency anymore. you would not see window
updates through the fan.

i will get a new laptop soon, so i will be playing with openGL soon.
But we can not assume it. so we need an alternative (the old)
implamentation.

> 
> That is fine, but fansliders should be useful without
> xcomposite. Otherwise we damn phat-enabled apps.
> 
> > I'll work on making them a bit faster if possible anyway. Though i
> > think i'm keeping the roundness ;)
> 
> Keeping it is ok, forcing it is not. Please make it optional! After all
> user has the power to choose style, no? Even MS operating systems are
> themable these days.
> 
> -- 
> Nedko Arnaudov <GnuPG KeyID: DE1716B0>



> _______________________________________________
> Phat-dev mailing list
> Phat-dev at lists.berlios.de
> https://lists.berlios.de/mailman/listinfo/phat-dev


-- 
torben Hohn
http://galan.sourceforge.net -- The graphical Audio language


From torbenh at gmx.de  Fri Sep  7 13:59:40 2007
From: torbenh at gmx.de (torbenh at gmx.de)
Date: Fri, 7 Sep 2007 13:59:40 +0200
Subject: [Phat-dev] PhatAudiostream (was Re:  sorry for absence....)
In-Reply-To: <20070907080605.GA7355@mobilat>
References: <20070906143653.GA29694@mobilat>
	<ec9314860709061454s2e28d6baja70f473848c9119b@mail.gmail.com>
	<20070907080605.GA7355@mobilat>
Message-ID: <20070907115940.GD23970@mobilat>

On Fri, Sep 07, 2007 at 10:06:05AM +0200, torbenh at gmx.de wrote:
> On Fri, Sep 07, 2007 at 06:54:33AM +0900, Loki Davison wrote:
> > On 9/6/07, torbenh at gmx.de <torbenh at gmx.de> wrote:
> > >
> > > hi guys.
> > > my internet connection was down.
> > > now i have my own connection which should be much more reliable than my
> > > old open WLAN connection.
> > >
> > > i am online again, and the PhatScrolloscope with the demo player is
> > > coming up.
> > >
> > >
> > > --
> > > torben Hohn
> > > http://galan.sourceforge.net -- The graphical Audio language
> > > _______________________________________________
> > > Phat-dev mailing list
> > > Phat-dev at lists.berlios.de
> > > https://lists.berlios.de/mailman/listinfo/phat-dev
> > >
> > 
> > I don' t think anyone on the list can complain too much. I've just
> > moved to korea and don't even have a computer here yet! Thinking of
> > getting the pretty cheap quad core intel. 130 Euro for the chip...
> 
> :) wow. quad cores are coming....
> well, at least you know i am here again. 
> 
> i wrote PhatScrolloscope which can display a PhatAudiostream.
> PhatAudiostream is not a real stream yet (loads whole file into mem)
> 
> but it already uses libsamplerate and libsndfile.
> So the main question is:
> 
> Add dependency to samplerate and sndfile ?
> refactoring these dependencies out of PhatAudiostream would make it
> virtual. 
> 
> I would like to commit them, but first want an ok for the depend.
> IMO libsndfile and libsamplerate are fulfilled everywhere.

here is a screenshot:
http://www.alice-dsl.net/torbenh/phatplaya.png

2 scrolloscopes playing at different speeds.
notice the scrolling while the screenshot was taken ;)

did i mention that we need labels on the knobs ;P
the upper knobs are the pitch controls and the lower ones are x/y zooms.

this thing mimics the behaviour of mixxx.
however i use a hardware dj mixer to mix so there will be no mixing
controls in the demo :)


> 
> > 
> > Loki
> > _______________________________________________
> > Phat-dev mailing list
> > Phat-dev at lists.berlios.de
> > https://lists.berlios.de/mailman/listinfo/phat-dev
> 
> -- 
> torben Hohn
> http://galan.sourceforge.net -- The graphical Audio language
> _______________________________________________
> Phat-dev mailing list
> Phat-dev at lists.berlios.de
> https://lists.berlios.de/mailman/listinfo/phat-dev

-- 
torben Hohn
http://galan.sourceforge.net -- The graphical Audio language


From torbenh at gmx.de  Fri Sep 14 13:08:58 2007
From: torbenh at gmx.de (torbenh at gmx.de)
Date: Fri, 14 Sep 2007 13:08:58 +0200
Subject: [Phat-dev] PhatAudiostream
In-Reply-To: <20070907080605.GA7355@mobilat>
References: <20070906143653.GA29694@mobilat>
	<ec9314860709061454s2e28d6baja70f473848c9119b@mail.gmail.com>
	<20070907080605.GA7355@mobilat>
Message-ID: <20070914110858.GA7400@mobilat>

On Fri, Sep 07, 2007 at 10:06:05AM +0200, torbenh at gmx.de wrote:
> On Fri, Sep 07, 2007 at 06:54:33AM +0900, Loki Davison wrote:
> > On 9/6/07, torbenh at gmx.de <torbenh at gmx.de> wrote:
> > >
> > > hi guys.
> > > my internet connection was down.
> > > now i have my own connection which should be much more reliable than my
> > > old open WLAN connection.
> > >
> > > i am online again, and the PhatScrolloscope with the demo player is
> > > coming up.
> > >
> > >
> > > --
> > > torben Hohn
> > > http://galan.sourceforge.net -- The graphical Audio language
> > > _______________________________________________
> > > Phat-dev mailing list
> > > Phat-dev at lists.berlios.de
> > > https://lists.berlios.de/mailman/listinfo/phat-dev
> > >
> > 
> > I don' t think anyone on the list can complain too much. I've just
> > moved to korea and don't even have a computer here yet! Thinking of
> > getting the pretty cheap quad core intel. 130 Euro for the chip...
> 
> :) wow. quad cores are coming....
> well, at least you know i am here again. 
> 
> i wrote PhatScrolloscope which can display a PhatAudiostream.
> PhatAudiostream is not a real stream yet (loads whole file into mem)
> 
> but it already uses libsamplerate and libsndfile.
> So the main question is:
> 
> Add dependency to samplerate and sndfile ?
> refactoring these dependencies out of PhatAudiostream would make it
> virtual. 
> 
> I would like to commit them, but first want an ok for the depend.
> IMO libsndfile and libsamplerate are fulfilled everywhere.

hmm... well nobody yelled... i commited.
things missing: correct reffing, destruction, in demos/phatscrolloscope
check for argc != 2

Give phatscrolloscope a sndfile loadable file that fits into mem two
times in floats...


> 
> > 
> > Loki
> > _______________________________________________
> > Phat-dev mailing list
> > Phat-dev at lists.berlios.de
> > https://lists.berlios.de/mailman/listinfo/phat-dev
> 
> -- 
> torben Hohn
> http://galan.sourceforge.net -- The graphical Audio language
> _______________________________________________
> Phat-dev mailing list
> Phat-dev at lists.berlios.de
> https://lists.berlios.de/mailman/listinfo/phat-dev

-- 
torben Hohn
http://galan.sourceforge.net -- The graphical Audio language


From torbenh at gmx.de  Fri Sep 14 14:16:39 2007
From: torbenh at gmx.de (torbenh at gmx.de)
Date: Fri, 14 Sep 2007 14:16:39 +0200
Subject: [Phat-dev] some thoughts again...
Message-ID: <20070914121639.GA14509@mobilat>


some things in my queue:

- make PhatAudiostream a real stream. (just use a fixed buffersize and
  make a timeout callback that ensures that in the circular buffer there
  is the material from playhead +/- buffer/2 ...

- second use for PhatAudiostream is a soundfile selector. need to pin
  down what is needed interface wise for this.

- midi learn and control automation.
  create a map String -> GtkAdjustment
  midi or osc source is then translated to a string by the user, and fed
  into this map. 

  phat_learn_map_feed( PhatLearnMap *map, char *controller_name, gdouble val )
  val is between 0..1 scaling is done be the map code.

  phat_learn_map_learn( PhatLearnMap *map, GtkAdjustment *adj )
  Go into learn mode. Next event received is associated with this
  adjustment.

  the references owned by the learn map should be week refs, so that the
  application programmer need not think about memory management here.

  mappings should be serializable... perhaps we need more info on how to
  reobtain the adjustments then.

Did you guys look at aldrin ? it contains a soundfile browser for the
freesound project. now this really rocks. 

what happened to you guys ? everybody offline ? sad :(

-- 
torben Hohn
http://galan.sourceforge.net -- The graphical Audio language


From loki.davison at gmail.com  Sat Sep 15 03:36:45 2007
From: loki.davison at gmail.com (Loki Davison)
Date: Sat, 15 Sep 2007 10:36:45 +0900
Subject: [Phat-dev] PhatAudiostream
In-Reply-To: <20070914110858.GA7400@mobilat>
References: <20070906143653.GA29694@mobilat>
	<ec9314860709061454s2e28d6baja70f473848c9119b@mail.gmail.com>
	<20070907080605.GA7355@mobilat> <20070914110858.GA7400@mobilat>
Message-ID: <ec9314860709141836g32cbbc84me9f5fcb6bc6f245c@mail.gmail.com>

On 9/14/07, torbenh at gmx.de <torbenh at gmx.de> wrote:
> On Fri, Sep 07, 2007 at 10:06:05AM +0200, torbenh at gmx.de wrote:
> > On Fri, Sep 07, 2007 at 06:54:33AM +0900, Loki Davison wrote:
> > > On 9/6/07, torbenh at gmx.de <torbenh at gmx.de> wrote:
> > > >
> > > > hi guys.
> > > > my internet connection was down.
> > > > now i have my own connection which should be much more reliable than
> my
> > > > old open WLAN connection.
> > > >
> > > > i am online again, and the PhatScrolloscope with the demo player is
> > > > coming up.
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > --
> > > > torben Hohn
> > > > http://galan.sourceforge.net -- The graphical Audio language
> > > > _______________________________________________
> > > > Phat-dev mailing list
> > > > Phat-dev at lists.berlios.de
> > > > https://lists.berlios.de/mailman/listinfo/phat-dev
> > > >
> > >
> > > I don' t think anyone on the list can complain too much. I've just
> > > moved to korea and don't even have a computer here yet! Thinking of
> > > getting the pretty cheap quad core intel. 130 Euro for the chip...
> >
> > :) wow. quad cores are coming....
> > well, at least you know i am here again.
> >
> > i wrote PhatScrolloscope which can display a PhatAudiostream.
> > PhatAudiostream is not a real stream yet (loads whole file into mem)
> >
> > but it already uses libsamplerate and libsndfile.
> > So the main question is:
> >
> > Add dependency to samplerate and sndfile ?
> > refactoring these dependencies out of PhatAudiostream would make it
> > virtual.
> >
> > I would like to commit them, but first want an ok for the depend.
> > IMO libsndfile and libsamplerate are fulfilled everywhere.
>
> hmm... well nobody yelled... i commited.
> things missing: correct reffing, destruction, in demos/phatscrolloscope
> check for argc != 2
>
> Give phatscrolloscope a sndfile loadable file that fits into mem two
> times in floats...

Cool, i've got a computer again so can get back into it. I start work
at 7am and finish at 10 pm though.... with a break in the middle of
the day. So not much time... ;) I think those deps are fine. What
happened with phat LV2? Can't see it in SVN.

Loki


From torbenh at gmx.de  Sat Sep 15 18:48:21 2007
From: torbenh at gmx.de (torbenh at gmx.de)
Date: Sat, 15 Sep 2007 18:48:21 +0200
Subject: [Phat-dev] PhatAudiostream
In-Reply-To: <ec9314860709141836g32cbbc84me9f5fcb6bc6f245c@mail.gmail.com>
References: <20070906143653.GA29694@mobilat>
	<ec9314860709061454s2e28d6baja70f473848c9119b@mail.gmail.com>
	<20070907080605.GA7355@mobilat> <20070914110858.GA7400@mobilat>
	<ec9314860709141836g32cbbc84me9f5fcb6bc6f245c@mail.gmail.com>
Message-ID: <20070915164821.GA31375@mobilat>

On Sat, Sep 15, 2007 at 10:36:45AM +0900, Loki Davison wrote:
> On 9/14/07, torbenh at gmx.de <torbenh at gmx.de> wrote:
> > On Fri, Sep 07, 2007 at 10:06:05AM +0200, torbenh at gmx.de wrote:
> > > On Fri, Sep 07, 2007 at 06:54:33AM +0900, Loki Davison wrote:
> > > > On 9/6/07, torbenh at gmx.de <torbenh at gmx.de> wrote:
> > > > >
> > > > > hi guys.
> > > > > my internet connection was down.
> > > > > now i have my own connection which should be much more reliable than
> > my
> > > > > old open WLAN connection.
> > > > >
> > > > > i am online again, and the PhatScrolloscope with the demo player is
> > > > > coming up.
> > > > >
> > > > >
> > > > > --
> > > > > torben Hohn
> > > > > http://galan.sourceforge.net -- The graphical Audio language
> > > > > _______________________________________________
> > > > > Phat-dev mailing list
> > > > > Phat-dev at lists.berlios.de
> > > > > https://lists.berlios.de/mailman/listinfo/phat-dev
> > > > >
> > > >
> > > > I don' t think anyone on the list can complain too much. I've just
> > > > moved to korea and don't even have a computer here yet! Thinking of
> > > > getting the pretty cheap quad core intel. 130 Euro for the chip...
> > >
> > > :) wow. quad cores are coming....
> > > well, at least you know i am here again.
> > >
> > > i wrote PhatScrolloscope which can display a PhatAudiostream.
> > > PhatAudiostream is not a real stream yet (loads whole file into mem)
> > >
> > > but it already uses libsamplerate and libsndfile.
> > > So the main question is:
> > >
> > > Add dependency to samplerate and sndfile ?
> > > refactoring these dependencies out of PhatAudiostream would make it
> > > virtual.
> > >
> > > I would like to commit them, but first want an ok for the depend.
> > > IMO libsndfile and libsamplerate are fulfilled everywhere.
> >
> > hmm... well nobody yelled... i commited.
> > things missing: correct reffing, destruction, in demos/phatscrolloscope
> > check for argc != 2
> >
> > Give phatscrolloscope a sndfile loadable file that fits into mem two
> > times in floats...
> 
> Cool, i've got a computer again so can get back into it. I start work
> at 7am and finish at 10 pm though.... with a break in the middle of
> the day. So not much time... ;) I think those deps are fine. What
> happened with phat LV2? Can't see it in SVN.

i did not work on it too much... its still generated from .gob etc..
i commit the directory thats containing it.
we can later move it where it belongs then...

currently thinking about midi learn functionality....

> 
> Loki
> _______________________________________________
> Phat-dev mailing list
> Phat-dev at lists.berlios.de
> https://lists.berlios.de/mailman/listinfo/phat-dev

-- 
torben Hohn
http://galan.sourceforge.net -- The graphical Audio language


From loki.davison at gmail.com  Sun Sep 16 03:00:54 2007
From: loki.davison at gmail.com (Loki Davison)
Date: Sun, 16 Sep 2007 10:00:54 +0900
Subject: [Phat-dev] PhatAudiostream
In-Reply-To: <20070915164821.GA31375@mobilat>
References: <20070906143653.GA29694@mobilat>
	<ec9314860709061454s2e28d6baja70f473848c9119b@mail.gmail.com>
	<20070907080605.GA7355@mobilat> <20070914110858.GA7400@mobilat>
	<ec9314860709141836g32cbbc84me9f5fcb6bc6f245c@mail.gmail.com>
	<20070915164821.GA31375@mobilat>
Message-ID: <ec9314860709151800v2296707fhbece8402b73d3911@mail.gmail.com>

On 9/16/07, torbenh at gmx.de <torbenh at gmx.de> wrote:
> On Sat, Sep 15, 2007 at 10:36:45AM +0900, Loki Davison wrote:
> > On 9/14/07, torbenh at gmx.de <torbenh at gmx.de> wrote:
> > > On Fri, Sep 07, 2007 at 10:06:05AM +0200, torbenh at gmx.de wrote:
> > > > On Fri, Sep 07, 2007 at 06:54:33AM +0900, Loki Davison wrote:
> > > > > On 9/6/07, torbenh at gmx.de <torbenh at gmx.de> wrote:
> > > > > >
> > > > > > hi guys.
> > > > > > my internet connection was down.
> > > > > > now i have my own connection which should be much more reliable
> than
> > > my
> > > > > > old open WLAN connection.
> > > > > >
> > > > > > i am online again, and the PhatScrolloscope with the demo player
> is
> > > > > > coming up.
> > > > > >
> > > > > >
> > > > > > --
> > > > > > torben Hohn
> > > > > > http://galan.sourceforge.net -- The graphical Audio language
> > > > > > _______________________________________________
> > > > > > Phat-dev mailing list
> > > > > > Phat-dev at lists.berlios.de
> > > > > > https://lists.berlios.de/mailman/listinfo/phat-dev
> > > > > >
> > > > >
> > > > > I don' t think anyone on the list can complain too much. I've just
> > > > > moved to korea and don't even have a computer here yet! Thinking of
> > > > > getting the pretty cheap quad core intel. 130 Euro for the chip...
> > > >
> > > > :) wow. quad cores are coming....
> > > > well, at least you know i am here again.
> > > >
> > > > i wrote PhatScrolloscope which can display a PhatAudiostream.
> > > > PhatAudiostream is not a real stream yet (loads whole file into mem)
> > > >
> > > > but it already uses libsamplerate and libsndfile.
> > > > So the main question is:
> > > >
> > > > Add dependency to samplerate and sndfile ?
> > > > refactoring these dependencies out of PhatAudiostream would make it
> > > > virtual.
> > > >
> > > > I would like to commit them, but first want an ok for the depend.
> > > > IMO libsndfile and libsamplerate are fulfilled everywhere.
> > >
> > > hmm... well nobody yelled... i commited.
> > > things missing: correct reffing, destruction, in demos/phatscrolloscope
> > > check for argc != 2
> > >
> > > Give phatscrolloscope a sndfile loadable file that fits into mem two
> > > times in floats...
> >
> > Cool, i've got a computer again so can get back into it. I start work
> > at 7am and finish at 10 pm though.... with a break in the middle of
> > the day. So not much time... ;) I think those deps are fine. What
> > happened with phat LV2? Can't see it in SVN.
>
> i did not work on it too much... its still generated from .gob etc..
> i commit the directory thats containing it.
> we can later move it where it belongs then...
>
> currently thinking about midi learn functionality....
>


It's better to have it in SVN. Less chance of loosing or duplicating
stuff then. WE can always just remove it if we don't want it.

Loki


From nedko at arnaudov.name  Tue Sep 18 14:59:57 2007
From: nedko at arnaudov.name (Nedko Arnaudov)
Date: Tue, 18 Sep 2007 15:59:57 +0300
Subject: [Phat-dev] some thoughts again...
In-Reply-To: <20070914121639.GA14509@mobilat> (torbenh@gmx.de's message of
	"Fri, 14 Sep 2007 14:16:39 +0200")
References: <20070914121639.GA14509@mobilat>
Message-ID: <87abrkw2lu.fsf@arnaudov.name>

torbenh at gmx.de writes:

> - midi learn and control automation.
>   create a map String -> GtkAdjustment
>   midi or osc source is then translated to a string by the user, and fed
>   into this map. 
>
>   phat_learn_map_feed( PhatLearnMap *map, char *controller_name, gdouble val )
>   val is between 0..1 scaling is done be the map code.
>
>   phat_learn_map_learn( PhatLearnMap *map, GtkAdjustment *adj )
>   Go into learn mode. Next event received is associated with this
>   adjustment.
>
>   the references owned by the learn map should be week refs, so that the
>   application programmer need not think about memory management here.
>
>   mappings should be serializable... perhaps we need more info on how to
>   reobtain the adjustments then.

How this will interact with phatrange?

> what happened to you guys ? everybody offline ? sad :(

I've been quite busy recently with the 5th International Short Film
festival in Balchik. 

-- 
Nedko Arnaudov <GnuPG KeyID: DE1716B0>
-------------- next part --------------
A non-text attachment was scrubbed...
Name: not available
Type: application/pgp-signature
Size: 188 bytes
Desc: not available
URL: <https://lists.berlios.de/pipermail/phat-dev/attachments/20070918/c00ce84d/attachment.pgp>

From torbenh at gmx.de  Thu Sep 20 15:29:58 2007
From: torbenh at gmx.de (torbenh at gmx.de)
Date: Thu, 20 Sep 2007 15:29:58 +0200
Subject: [Phat-dev] some thoughts again...
In-Reply-To: <87abrkw2lu.fsf@arnaudov.name>
References: <20070914121639.GA14509@mobilat> <87abrkw2lu.fsf@arnaudov.name>
Message-ID: <20070920132957.GB31375@mobilat>

On Tue, Sep 18, 2007 at 03:59:57PM +0300, Nedko Arnaudov wrote:
> torbenh at gmx.de writes:
> 
> > - midi learn and control automation.
> >   create a map String -> GtkAdjustment
> >   midi or osc source is then translated to a string by the user, and fed
> >   into this map. 
> >
> >   phat_learn_map_feed( PhatLearnMap *map, char *controller_name, gdouble val )
> >   val is between 0..1 scaling is done be the map code.
> >
> >   phat_learn_map_learn( PhatLearnMap *map, GtkAdjustment *adj )
> >   Go into learn mode. Next event received is associated with this
> >   adjustment.
> >
> >   the references owned by the learn map should be week refs, so that the
> >   application programmer need not think about memory management here.
> >
> >   mappings should be serializable... perhaps we need more info on how to
> >   reobtain the adjustments then.
> 
> How this will interact with phatrange?

I dont see the necessity to have this interact with phatrange yet.
it just takes a GtkAdjustment...

but perhaps the learning trigger CTRL-MidClick could be handled by
phatrange. And the reobtainment of the Adjustment on map reload could
involve some interaction with the phat range.


> 
> > what happened to you guys ? everybody offline ? sad :(
> 
> I've been quite busy recently with the 5th International Short Film
> festival in Balchik. 

k. well i said that and stayed at my girlfriends place for a week :)


> 
> -- 
> Nedko Arnaudov <GnuPG KeyID: DE1716B0>



> _______________________________________________
> Phat-dev mailing list
> Phat-dev at lists.berlios.de
> https://lists.berlios.de/mailman/listinfo/phat-dev


-- 
torben Hohn
http://galan.sourceforge.net -- The graphical Audio language


From nedko at arnaudov.name  Fri Sep 21 13:58:17 2007
From: nedko at arnaudov.name (Nedko Arnaudov)
Date: Fri, 21 Sep 2007 14:58:17 +0300
Subject: [Phat-dev] phat-0.4.1 configure issues,
	phat 0.4.1 part of Gentoo now.
In-Reply-To: <20070915093014.0ffcc800@localhost> (Samuli Suominen's message
	of "Sat, 15 Sep 2007 09:30:14 +0300")
References: <20070915093014.0ffcc800@localhost>
Message-ID: <87tzpoi61y.fsf@arnaudov.name>

Samuli Suominen <drac at gentoo.org> writes:

> Phat was easy to version bump in Gentoo, since you're making use of
> autotools pretty good but just wanted to request that you stop using
> pre-setupped CFLAGS like -O3. Users or package maintainers of
> distribution will do this for themselfs. It may also potentially break
> with some of GCC versions.
>
> Another thing I noticed is -Werror, please don't release tarballs with
> -Werror, it's fine when using pre-release but may break building in
> source distributions due to libgnomecanvas/gtk+-2/gcc/whatever else
> phat is using indirectly.
>
> Other than stripping -O3 and -Werror from your configure it was easy to
> add, thanks!

I completely agree with Samuli. In my own projects I'm using -Werror for
-dev/-pre/-rc tarballs and in SVN but not for release tarballs. I can
port the thing to PHAT if others agree.

Samuli, please notice that there is a mailing list phat-dev at lists.berlios.de

-- 
Nedko Arnaudov



From torbenh at gmx.de  Wed Sep 26 04:29:43 2007
From: torbenh at gmx.de (torbenh at gmx.de)
Date: Wed, 26 Sep 2007 04:29:43 +0200
Subject: [Phat-dev] phat-0.4.1 configure issues,
	phat 0.4.1 part of Gentoo now.
In-Reply-To: <87tzpoi61y.fsf@arnaudov.name>
References: <20070915093014.0ffcc800@localhost> <87tzpoi61y.fsf@arnaudov.name>
Message-ID: <20070926022943.GB17061@mobilat>

On Fri, Sep 21, 2007 at 02:58:17PM +0300, Nedko Arnaudov wrote:
> Samuli Suominen <drac at gentoo.org> writes:
> 
> > Phat was easy to version bump in Gentoo, since you're making use of
> > autotools pretty good but just wanted to request that you stop using
> > pre-setupped CFLAGS like -O3. Users or package maintainers of
> > distribution will do this for themselfs. It may also potentially break
> > with some of GCC versions.
> >
> > Another thing I noticed is -Werror, please don't release tarballs with
> > -Werror, it's fine when using pre-release but may break building in
> > source distributions due to libgnomecanvas/gtk+-2/gcc/whatever else
> > phat is using indirectly.
> >
> > Other than stripping -O3 and -Werror from your configure it was easy to
> > add, thanks!
> 
> I completely agree with Samuli. In my own projects I'm using -Werror for
> -dev/-pre/-rc tarballs and in SVN but not for release tarballs. I can
> port the thing to PHAT if others agree.
> 
> Samuli, please notice that there is a mailing list phat-dev at lists.berlios.de

i agree also. i noticed, that -Werror is quite nice though.
but we could provide it to ./configure ourselves.

nedko, how is your thing working ?
Samuli, i am devloping on gentoo, so its llikely to work smoothly ;)


> 
> -- 
> Nedko Arnaudov
> 
> _______________________________________________
> Phat-dev mailing list
> Phat-dev at lists.berlios.de
> https://lists.berlios.de/mailman/listinfo/phat-dev

-- 
torben Hohn
http://galan.sourceforge.net -- The graphical Audio language


From nedko at arnaudov.name  Thu Sep 27 10:33:48 2007
From: nedko at arnaudov.name (Nedko Arnaudov)
Date: Thu, 27 Sep 2007 11:33:48 +0300
Subject: [Phat-dev] phat-0.4.1 configure issues,
 phat 0.4.1 part of Gentoo now.
In-Reply-To: <20070926022943.GB17061@mobilat> (torbenh@gmx.de's message of
	"Wed, 26 Sep 2007 04:29:43 +0200")
References: <20070915093014.0ffcc800@localhost> <87tzpoi61y.fsf@arnaudov.name>
	<20070926022943.GB17061@mobilat>
Message-ID: <87k5qcfqxf.fsf@arnaudov.name>

torbenh at gmx.de writes:

> On Fri, Sep 21, 2007 at 02:58:17PM +0300, Nedko Arnaudov wrote:
>> Samuli Suominen <drac at gentoo.org> writes:
>> 
>> > Phat was easy to version bump in Gentoo, since you're making use of
>> > autotools pretty good but just wanted to request that you stop using
>> > pre-setupped CFLAGS like -O3. Users or package maintainers of
>> > distribution will do this for themselfs. It may also potentially break
>> > with some of GCC versions.
>> >
>> > Another thing I noticed is -Werror, please don't release tarballs with
>> > -Werror, it's fine when using pre-release but may break building in
>> > source distributions due to libgnomecanvas/gtk+-2/gcc/whatever else
>> > phat is using indirectly.
>> >
>> > Other than stripping -O3 and -Werror from your configure it was easy to
>> > add, thanks!
>> 
>> I completely agree with Samuli. In my own projects I'm using -Werror for
>> -dev/-pre/-rc tarballs and in SVN but not for release tarballs. I can
>> port the thing to PHAT if others agree.
>> 
>> Samuli, please notice that there is a mailing list phat-dev at lists.berlios.de
>
> i agree also. i noticed, that -Werror is quite nice though.
> but we could provide it to ./configure ourselves.
>
> nedko, how is your thing working ?
> Samuli, i am devloping on gentoo, so its llikely to work smoothly ;)

It checks version for special value that i use for not released code
(i.e. in svn trunk):

http://svn.gna.org/viewcvs/jackmixer?rev=88&view=rev

-- 
Nedko Arnaudov <GnuPG KeyID: DE1716B0>
-------------- next part --------------
A non-text attachment was scrubbed...
Name: not available
Type: application/pgp-signature
Size: 188 bytes
Desc: not available
URL: <https://lists.berlios.de/pipermail/phat-dev/attachments/20070927/374803d3/attachment.pgp>

