From loki.davison at gmail.com  Thu Aug  2 17:33:50 2007
From: loki.davison at gmail.com (Loki Davison)
Date: Fri, 3 Aug 2007 01:33:50 +1000
Subject: [Phat-dev] fan slider updates and lv2 questions? Is it ugly or okay?
Message-ID: <ec9314860708020833jd1a49d5v890bb287454ec4ce@mail.gmail.com>

Hi all,
got a new martin guitar so not much coding going on! ;) Just had to
brag a bit.... What are everyones thoughts on the new fan slider look?
I'll fix the glass effect to be a better 3d effect soon. How is other
code progressing? Torben, what are you doing with lv2 stuff? Get it
into svn one way or another. We could also use some example code for
the midi/osc/etc control stuff you mentioned. We seem to be getting
quite a collection of new features so maybe we should put out a
release soon. Probaby when the lv2 and meter stuff is finalised? What
else is required?

Loki


From zenadsl6252 at zen.co.uk  Fri Aug  3 05:41:47 2007
From: zenadsl6252 at zen.co.uk (pete)
Date: Fri, 3 Aug 2007 04:41:47 +0100
Subject: [Phat-dev] fan slider updates and lv2 questions? Is it ugly or
 okay?
In-Reply-To: <ec9314860708020833jd1a49d5v890bb287454ec4ce@mail.gmail.com>
References: <ec9314860708020833jd1a49d5v890bb287454ec4ce@mail.gmail.com>
Message-ID: <20070803044147.35923d48.zenadsl6252@zen.co.uk>

On Fri, 3 Aug 2007 01:33:50 +1000
"Loki Davison" <loki.davison at gmail.com> wrote:

> Hi all,
> got a new martin guitar so not much coding
> going on! ;) Just had to brag a bit.... What
> are everyones thoughts on the new fan slider
> look? 

i like the gist of the design although some
aspects (glass effect, curve proportions) could
do with changing (imho). the thing is, i'm not
sure it's ideal as a fixed native default as it
won't sit well with the majority of themes.
(as it's 2D and features large curves)

having said that, i'm unlikely to use the
fanslider so i'm not going to bitch about what it
looks like (any more :).

more importantly for me, the the fan is unusably
slow on both my systems. hopefully i can catch
you on irc at some point and we can compare and
contrast X configurations.

there's also no fallback for non composite
systems. (or where composite is enabled but
there's no composite manager running) we
need that i think.

> I'll fix the glass effect to be a better
> 3d effect soon. How is other code progressing?
> Torben, what are you doing with lv2 stuff? Get
> it into svn one way or another. We could also
> use some example code for the midi/osc/etc
> control stuff you mentioned. We seem to be
> getting quite a collection of new features so
> maybe we should put out a release soon. Probaby
> when the lv2 and meter stuff is finalised? What
> else is required?

i'm in no rush for a release. i don't know how far
along the lv2 stuff or meters are but we are
halfway though reorganising the range widgets.
it's coming together but it's still a mess at the 
moment. if you want to release reasonably soon
then i'll postpone any more ambitious changes and
concentrate on sorting out what we have so far.

:)

pete.


From loki.davison at gmail.com  Fri Aug  3 06:02:01 2007
From: loki.davison at gmail.com (Loki Davison)
Date: Fri, 3 Aug 2007 14:02:01 +1000
Subject: [Phat-dev] fan slider updates and lv2 questions? Is it ugly or
	okay?
In-Reply-To: <20070803044147.35923d48.zenadsl6252@zen.co.uk>
References: <ec9314860708020833jd1a49d5v890bb287454ec4ce@mail.gmail.com>
	<20070803044147.35923d48.zenadsl6252@zen.co.uk>
Message-ID: <ec9314860708022102q356e0dd2h4ad0b6982ac33a7c@mail.gmail.com>

On 8/3/07, pete <zenadsl6252 at zen.co.uk> wrote:
> On Fri, 3 Aug 2007 01:33:50 +1000
> "Loki Davison" <loki.davison at gmail.com> wrote:
>
> > Hi all,
> > got a new martin guitar so not much coding
> > going on! ;) Just had to brag a bit.... What
> > are everyones thoughts on the new fan slider
> > look?
>
> i like the gist of the design although some
> aspects (glass effect, curve proportions) could
> do with changing (imho). the thing is, i'm not
> sure it's ideal as a fixed native default as it
> won't sit well with the majority of themes.
> (as it's 2D and features large curves)
>
> having said that, i'm unlikely to use the
> fanslider so i'm not going to bitch about what it
> looks like (any more :).
>
> more importantly for me, the the fan is unusably
> slow on both my systems. hopefully i can catch
> you on irc at some point and we can compare and
> contrast X configurations.
>
> there's also no fallback for non composite
> systems. (or where composite is enabled but
> there's no composite manager running) we
> need that i think.
>
> > I'll fix the glass effect to be a better
> > 3d effect soon. How is other code progressing?
> > Torben, what are you doing with lv2 stuff? Get
> > it into svn one way or another. We could also
> > use some example code for the midi/osc/etc
> > control stuff you mentioned. We seem to be
> > getting quite a collection of new features so
> > maybe we should put out a release soon. Probaby
> > when the lv2 and meter stuff is finalised? What
> > else is required?
>
> i'm in no rush for a release. i don't know how far
> along the lv2 stuff or meters are but we are
> halfway though reorganising the range widgets.
> it's coming together but it's still a mess at the
> moment. if you want to release reasonably soon
> then i'll postpone any more ambitious changes and
> concentrate on sorting out what we have so far.
>
> :)
>
> pete.
> _______________________________________________

No pressing hurry go for the ambitious changes! ;) What is the general
plan with the range widgets? Got the mapping stuff worked out?

Loki


From zenadsl6252 at zen.co.uk  Fri Aug  3 08:12:24 2007
From: zenadsl6252 at zen.co.uk (pete)
Date: Fri, 3 Aug 2007 07:12:24 +0100
Subject: [Phat-dev] fan slider updates and lv2 questions? Is it ugly or
 okay?
In-Reply-To: <ec9314860708022102q356e0dd2h4ad0b6982ac33a7c@mail.gmail.com>
References: <ec9314860708020833jd1a49d5v890bb287454ec4ce@mail.gmail.com>
	<20070803044147.35923d48.zenadsl6252@zen.co.uk>
	<ec9314860708022102q356e0dd2h4ad0b6982ac33a7c@mail.gmail.com>
Message-ID: <20070803071224.2545ca0b.zenadsl6252@zen.co.uk>

On Fri, 3 Aug 2007 14:02:01 +1000
"Loki Davison" <loki.davison at gmail.com> wrote:

> On 8/3/07, pete <zenadsl6252 at zen.co.uk> wrote:
> > On Fri, 3 Aug 2007 01:33:50 +1000
> > "Loki Davison" <loki.davison at gmail.com> wrote:

> > _______________________________________________
> 
> No pressing hurry go for the ambitious
> changes! ;) What is the general plan with the
> range widgets? Got the mapping stuff worked out?

i'll start a new thread :)

pete.


From zenadsl6252 at zen.co.uk  Fri Aug  3 09:56:02 2007
From: zenadsl6252 at zen.co.uk (pete)
Date: Fri, 3 Aug 2007 08:56:02 +0100
Subject: [Phat-dev] phatrange and range widgets
Message-ID: <20070803085602.d0b9c72a.zenadsl6252@zen.co.uk>

we decided to incorporate the useful parts of
gtkrange as phatrange in order to use that as the
base class for our range widgets.
to that end, i've just committed the stripped down
phatrange and some tweaks to phatknob.

in the end i practically gutted phatrange. this
included removing some features that were
ostensibly useful. this is because non of our
widgets would use those features even though the
related properties were inherited. i hope to
put some or all of them back, but rewritten to
better suit our needs, then i'll update the rest
of the range widgets to use them.

these include:

the update policy
	perhaps not so useful for audio but
	probably nice to have anyway

inverted mode
	could this go in the mapper? do we care
	about inverted mode at all?

input handling (scrolling, keys etc)
	this needs some careful thought. we
	either need to leverage gtk features
	to store input configurations or come
	up with our own config system. 
	i don't imagine this will go back in the
	range widget directly either.

so, phatrange now contains little more than the
following:

adjustment handling
a placeholder for the value mapper
some cases to deal with using the parent window
for drawing and a dedicated event window.

unless anyone has any objections, i'll start
moving all range widgets over to phatrange.
this will involve removing log mode until the
mapper is finished.

pete.


From nedko at arnaudov.name  Fri Aug  3 10:33:39 2007
From: nedko at arnaudov.name (Nedko Arnaudov)
Date: Fri, 03 Aug 2007 11:33:39 +0300
Subject: [Phat-dev] phatrange and range widgets
In-Reply-To: <20070803085602.d0b9c72a.zenadsl6252@zen.co.uk> (pete's message
	of "Fri, 3 Aug 2007 08:56:02 +0100")
References: <20070803085602.d0b9c72a.zenadsl6252@zen.co.uk>
Message-ID: <87y7gtdnks.fsf@arnaudov.name>

pete <zenadsl6252 at zen.co.uk> writes:

> inverted mode
> 	could this go in the mapper? do we care
> 	about inverted mode at all?

It can pf course, if we care. I personally dont care for my apps so
far.

> input handling (scrolling, keys etc)
> 	this needs some careful thought. we
> 	either need to leverage gtk features
> 	to store input configurations or come
> 	up with our own config system. 
> 	i don't imagine this will go back in the
> 	range widget directly either.

IMHO phat config system would be good thing. But I'd postpone this for
release following next one. Loki?

> so, phatrange now contains little more than the
> following:
>
> adjustment handling
> a placeholder for the value mapper
> some cases to deal with using the parent window
> for drawing and a dedicated event window.

I'll check the code in my first time window :) ... and try to do
something about these mapper objects

> unless anyone has any objections, i'll start
> moving all range widgets over to phatrange.
> this will involve removing log mode until the
> mapper is finished.

no objections for phatranging :D

i dont use log mode in my apps, do we know any app using it?
If so we better include log mode as mapper object in next release, so we
dont have less features in newer release.

-- 
Nedko Arnaudov <GnuPG KeyID: DE1716B0>
-------------- next part --------------
A non-text attachment was scrubbed...
Name: not available
Type: application/pgp-signature
Size: 188 bytes
Desc: not available
URL: <https://lists.berlios.de/pipermail/phat-dev/attachments/20070803/1b77606c/attachment.pgp>

From damon at karuna.eclipse.co.uk  Fri Aug  3 10:55:34 2007
From: damon at karuna.eclipse.co.uk (Damon Chaplin)
Date: Fri, 03 Aug 2007 09:55:34 +0100
Subject: [Phat-dev] fan slider updates and lv2 questions? Is it ugly
	or	okay?
In-Reply-To: <ec9314860708020833jd1a49d5v890bb287454ec4ce@mail.gmail.com>
References: <ec9314860708020833jd1a49d5v890bb287454ec4ce@mail.gmail.com>
Message-ID: <1186131334.3253.2.camel@localhost.localdomain>

On Fri, 2007-08-03 at 01:33 +1000, Loki Davison wrote:
> Hi all,
> got a new martin guitar so not much coding going on! ;) Just had to
> brag a bit.... What are everyones thoughts on the new fan slider look?
> I'll fix the glass effect to be a better 3d effect soon. How is other
> code progressing? Torben, what are you doing with lv2 stuff? Get it
> into svn one way or another. We could also use some example code for
> the midi/osc/etc control stuff you mentioned. We seem to be getting
> quite a collection of new features so maybe we should put out a
> release soon. Probaby when the lv2 and meter stuff is finalised? What
> else is required?

Unfortunately I've moved onto other things, so I won't be doing any more
work on the meter widgets.

I do have some newer code is faster and helps interface with JACK, if
someone wants that. Though I'm not entirely sure it is correct.

Damon




From zenadsl6252 at zen.co.uk  Fri Aug  3 11:13:31 2007
From: zenadsl6252 at zen.co.uk (pete)
Date: Fri, 3 Aug 2007 10:13:31 +0100
Subject: [Phat-dev] phatrange and range widgets
In-Reply-To: <87y7gtdnks.fsf@arnaudov.name>
References: <20070803085602.d0b9c72a.zenadsl6252@zen.co.uk>
	<87y7gtdnks.fsf@arnaudov.name>
Message-ID: <20070803101331.dccf1de6.zenadsl6252@zen.co.uk>

On Fri, 03 Aug 2007 11:33:39 +0300
Nedko Arnaudov <nedko at arnaudov.name> wrote:

> pete <zenadsl6252 at zen.co.uk> writes:
> 
> > inverted mode
> > 	could this go in the mapper? do we
> > care about inverted mode at all?
> 
> It can pf course, if we care. I personally dont
> care for my apps so far.

i'm not sure that it's legitimate to
think that this feature might be useful while
simultaneously being unable to think of a single
use for it. unless someone speaks up in it's
favour, i guess, forget it. :)

> 
> > input handling (scrolling, keys etc)
> > 	this needs some careful thought. we
> > 	either need to leverage gtk features
> > 	to store input configurations or come
> > 	up with our own config system. 
> > 	i don't imagine this will go back in
> > the range widget directly either.
> 
> IMHO phat config system would be good thing.
> But I'd postpone this for release following
> next one. Loki?

yeah, we lose nothing by doing so as those
widgets that already have extended input support,
do so in their own classes.

> 
> > so, phatrange now contains little more than
> > the following:
> >
> > adjustment handling
> > a placeholder for the value mapper
> > some cases to deal with using the parent
> > window for drawing and a dedicated event
> > window.
> 
> I'll check the code in my first time
> window :) ... and try to do something about
> these mapper objects

feel free to change phatrange to suit. i just
threw the placeholder in whilst i was there.
 
> > unless anyone has any objections, i'll start
> > moving all range widgets over to phatrange.
> > this will involve removing log mode until the
> > mapper is finished.
> 
> no objections for phatranging :D
> 
> i dont use log mode in my apps, do we know any
> app using it? If so we better include log mode
> as mapper object in next release, so we dont
> have less features in newer release.

pete.


From zenadsl6252 at zen.co.uk  Fri Aug  3 14:31:03 2007
From: zenadsl6252 at zen.co.uk (pete)
Date: Fri, 3 Aug 2007 13:31:03 +0100
Subject: [Phat-dev] fan slider updates and lv2 questions? Is it ugly or
 okay?
In-Reply-To: <1186131334.3253.2.camel@localhost.localdomain>
References: <ec9314860708020833jd1a49d5v890bb287454ec4ce@mail.gmail.com>
	<1186131334.3253.2.camel@localhost.localdomain>
Message-ID: <20070803133103.e74ff443.zenadsl6252@zen.co.uk>

On Fri, 03 Aug 2007 09:55:34 +0100
Damon Chaplin <damon at karuna.eclipse.co.uk> wrote:
 
> Unfortunately I've moved onto other things, so
> I won't be doing any more work on the meter
> widgets.

ah, sorry to hear that. well, thanks a lot for
your help Damon. having the meters ported in, oh
about 8 seconds was a huge boost for phat. :) 

> I do have some newer code is faster and helps
> interface with JACK, if someone wants that.
> Though I'm not entirely sure it is correct.

sure. send it over to loki (or me in fact). we
will check it in or upload it somewhere in case
we can make use of it.

cheers,
pete.


From loki.davison at gmail.com  Fri Aug  3 14:36:52 2007
From: loki.davison at gmail.com (Loki Davison)
Date: Fri, 3 Aug 2007 22:36:52 +1000
Subject: [Phat-dev] fan slider updates and lv2 questions? Is it ugly or
	okay?
In-Reply-To: <20070803133103.e74ff443.zenadsl6252@zen.co.uk>
References: <ec9314860708020833jd1a49d5v890bb287454ec4ce@mail.gmail.com>
	<1186131334.3253.2.camel@localhost.localdomain>
	<20070803133103.e74ff443.zenadsl6252@zen.co.uk>
Message-ID: <ec9314860708030536v25709356p2f7a33b722e24234@mail.gmail.com>

On 8/3/07, pete <zenadsl6252 at zen.co.uk> wrote:
> On Fri, 03 Aug 2007 09:55:34 +0100
> Damon Chaplin <damon at karuna.eclipse.co.uk> wrote:
>
> > Unfortunately I've moved onto other things, so
> > I won't be doing any more work on the meter
> > widgets.
>
> ah, sorry to hear that. well, thanks a lot for
> your help Damon. having the meters ported in, oh
> about 8 seconds was a huge boost for phat. :)
>
> > I do have some newer code is faster and helps
> > interface with JACK, if someone wants that.
> > Though I'm not entirely sure it is correct.
>
> sure. send it over to loki (or me in fact). we
> will check it in or upload it somewhere in case
> we can make use of it.
>
> cheers,
> pete. _______________________________________________
> Phat-dev mailing list
> Phat-dev at lists.berlios.de
> https://lists.berlios.de/mailman/listinfo/phat-dev
>


Seconded on both ;) Send it over and thanks for the great porting help.

Loki


From nedko at arnaudov.name  Sun Aug  5 13:42:49 2007
From: nedko at arnaudov.name (Nedko Arnaudov)
Date: Sun, 05 Aug 2007 14:42:49 +0300
Subject: [Phat-dev] phatrange and range widgets
In-Reply-To: <20070803101331.dccf1de6.zenadsl6252@zen.co.uk> (pete's message
	of "Fri, 3 Aug 2007 10:13:31 +0100")
References: <20070803085602.d0b9c72a.zenadsl6252@zen.co.uk>
	<87y7gtdnks.fsf@arnaudov.name>
	<20070803101331.dccf1de6.zenadsl6252@zen.co.uk>
Message-ID: <87fy2yqkau.fsf@arnaudov.name>

pete <zenadsl6252 at zen.co.uk> writes:

>> > input handling (scrolling, keys etc)
>> > 	this needs some careful thought. we
>> > 	either need to leverage gtk features
>> > 	to store input configurations or come
>> > 	up with our own config system. 
>> > 	i don't imagine this will go back in
>> > the range widget directly either.
>> 
>> IMHO phat config system would be good thing.
>> But I'd postpone this for release following
>> next one. Loki?
>
> yeah, we lose nothing by doing so as those
> widgets that already have extended input support,
> do so in their own classes.

>> > so, phatrange now contains little more than
>> > the following:
>> >
>> > adjustment handling
>> > a placeholder for the value mapper
>> > some cases to deal with using the parent
>> > window for drawing and a dedicated event
>> > window.
>> 
>> I'll check the code in my first time
>> window :) ... and try to do something about
>> these mapper objects
>
> feel free to change phatrange to suit. i just
> threw the placeholder in whilst i was there.
>  
>> > unless anyone has any objections, i'll start
>> > moving all range widgets over to phatrange.
>> > this will involve removing log mode until the
>> > mapper is finished.


i've commited some work on phatrange and phatknob. in particular i
changed code in phatknob that directly used adjustment with code that
deals with abstracted "adjustment" with 0..1 range. I'd be glad if
someone reviews my changes before i make more, just to ensure i'm not
out of touch.

i have major problem with lacking ui user use cases and specification
how things (should) work. Some code i saw in phatknob is obviously
broken, some is commented out and i cannot fix things without knowledge
how it should work. i know this is work in progress but we should at
least document what are our goals. i think we should put this info in
the wiki associated with phat project. i talked with thorwil about knobs
in particular and i saw his try for this in his blog too and he said
we have serious discrepancies about knobs ui user use. we should
document them and take a plan to handle them. as for developer use of
widgets we lack documentation too and this is serious obstacle when
changing code (we dont want to strip existing phat-iazed projects,
right?). we should have use cases (developer point of view) and list of
projects using phat so they can be checked for compatibility issues
until project gets stable and coherent enough for other/new projects to
stay in line with.

So let start the list, and move it to wiki later:
 * zynjacku (through python bindings)
 * specimen
 * khagan (through python bindings)
 * jack_mixer (through python bindings)
 * demo programs budnled with phat

I've made some analysis of developer use cases and come to some
specification:
 * simplest use, no gtkadjustments, through accessing widget methods
   signals directly. i.e. knob_get_value(), connect to knob
   value-changed signal.
 * gtkadjustments for more advanced use with two subcases:
  * supply existing external gtkadjustment
  * expose our internal gtkadjustment for use somewhere else

In past I fixed some bugs that were some features not working in all use
cases. I beleive defining them will improve our code base in future and
will help testing too.

Now how this interacts with phatrange? In my vision so far direct access
methods should be implemented as proxy code to phatrange and not
directly interacting with widget code and thus it may be possible to use
some hairy macro to define them in all widgets. we need this because
gobject model does not support method inheritance, or i am wrong?

All gtkadjustment-less methods are implemented in phatrange by operating
on gtkadjustment referenced in it.

I'm still thinking about what is best way for interoperation between
gtkadjustment and mapper object. in particular, mapper, at least one i
have currently (monothonic linear spline), has valid range and is
somewhat incompatible with change of it, caused by external
gtkadjustment. Do you think we need to support external gtkadjustments
when we have mapper? I'd say no. Logarithm also has input restritions
too, thus rendering -50..0 gtkadjustment unusable. At least directly,
but i think mapper should operate on real range not artificial one, like
(0..1).

After more inspection of phatknob and those concept discrepancies we
have, i now beleive we should come with configuration system in next
release. I propose (and have motivation to work on) class code
interacting with gconf. In particular I want to start with radial/linear
knob behaviour, always with left mouse button. More configuration
candidates are welcome. Lets collect them in this thread, I'll put them
on wiki once we have plan.

-- 
Nedko Arnaudov <GnuPG KeyID: DE1716B0>
-------------- next part --------------
A non-text attachment was scrubbed...
Name: not available
Type: application/pgp-signature
Size: 188 bytes
Desc: not available
URL: <https://lists.berlios.de/pipermail/phat-dev/attachments/20070805/3b2f6380/attachment.pgp>

From nedko at arnaudov.name  Sun Aug  5 13:47:12 2007
From: nedko at arnaudov.name (Nedko Arnaudov)
Date: Sun, 05 Aug 2007 14:47:12 +0300
Subject: [Phat-dev] fansliders
Message-ID: <877ioaqk3j.fsf@arnaudov.name>

Currently phatfansliders are unusable in by setup. At least they could
not eat my cpu without even showing fans. Also round corners look really
ugly in my gtk theme. I dont think "round corners" is public property of
gtk themes so it looks like good cadidate for our configuration
system. Also i think we should have not-round corners as default because
i beleive more themes are "edgy" than round.
-- 
Nedko Arnaudov <GnuPG KeyID: DE1716B0>
-------------- next part --------------
A non-text attachment was scrubbed...
Name: not available
Type: application/pgp-signature
Size: 188 bytes
Desc: not available
URL: <https://lists.berlios.de/pipermail/phat-dev/attachments/20070805/897d155e/attachment.pgp>

From torbenh at gmx.de  Wed Aug  8 20:45:00 2007
From: torbenh at gmx.de (torbenh at gmx.de)
Date: Wed, 8 Aug 2007 20:45:00 +0200
Subject: [Phat-dev] fansliders
In-Reply-To: <877ioaqk3j.fsf@arnaudov.name>
References: <877ioaqk3j.fsf@arnaudov.name>
Message-ID: <20070808184500.GD6920@mobilat>

On Sun, Aug 05, 2007 at 02:47:12PM +0300, Nedko Arnaudov wrote:
> Currently phatfansliders are unusable in by setup. At least they could

same here. no hardware acceleration.
but the fans are not transparent. nor the rest of the window, which is
white here.
Do i need to load some module for Xcomposite ?
need more input before i can look into this stuff ;)

> not eat my cpu without even showing fans. Also round corners look really
> ugly in my gtk theme. I dont think "round corners" is public property of
> gtk themes so it looks like good cadidate for our configuration
> system. Also i think we should have not-round corners as default because
> i beleive more themes are "edgy" than round.
> -- 
> Nedko Arnaudov <GnuPG KeyID: DE1716B0>



> _______________________________________________
> Phat-dev mailing list
> Phat-dev at lists.berlios.de
> https://lists.berlios.de/mailman/listinfo/phat-dev


-- 
torben Hohn
http://galan.sourceforge.net -- The graphical Audio language


From loki.davison at gmail.com  Thu Aug  9 13:11:32 2007
From: loki.davison at gmail.com (Loki Davison)
Date: Thu, 9 Aug 2007 21:11:32 +1000
Subject: [Phat-dev] fansliders
In-Reply-To: <20070808184500.GD6920@mobilat>
References: <877ioaqk3j.fsf@arnaudov.name> <20070808184500.GD6920@mobilat>
Message-ID: <ec9314860708090411y2b75741fu74697e117d8bc977@mail.gmail.com>

On 8/9/07, torbenh at gmx.de <torbenh at gmx.de> wrote:
> On Sun, Aug 05, 2007 at 02:47:12PM +0300, Nedko Arnaudov wrote:
> > Currently phatfansliders are unusable in by setup. At least they could
>
> same here. no hardware acceleration.
> but the fans are not transparent. nor the rest of the window, which is
> white here.
> Do i need to load some module for Xcomposite ?
> need more input before i can look into this stuff ;)
>


http://gentoo-wiki.com/TIP_Xorg_X11_and_Tranparency

I'll work on making them a bit faster if possible anyway. Though i
think i'm keeping the roundness ;)

Loki


From nedko at arnaudov.name  Thu Aug  9 14:57:53 2007
From: nedko at arnaudov.name (Nedko Arnaudov)
Date: Thu, 09 Aug 2007 15:57:53 +0300
Subject: [Phat-dev] fansliders
In-Reply-To: <ec9314860708090411y2b75741fu74697e117d8bc977@mail.gmail.com>
	(Loki Davison's message of "Thu, 9 Aug 2007 21:11:32 +1000")
References: <877ioaqk3j.fsf@arnaudov.name> <20070808184500.GD6920@mobilat>
	<ec9314860708090411y2b75741fu74697e117d8bc977@mail.gmail.com>
Message-ID: <87k5s4hnla.fsf@arnaudov.name>

"Loki Davison" <loki.davison at gmail.com> writes:

> On 8/9/07, torbenh at gmx.de <torbenh at gmx.de> wrote:
>> On Sun, Aug 05, 2007 at 02:47:12PM +0300, Nedko Arnaudov wrote:
>> > Currently phatfansliders are unusable in by setup. At least they could
>>
>> same here. no hardware acceleration.
>> but the fans are not transparent. nor the rest of the window, which is
>> white here.
>> Do i need to load some module for Xcomposite ?
>> need more input before i can look into this stuff ;)
>>
>
>
> http://gentoo-wiki.com/TIP_Xorg_X11_and_Tranparency

That is fine, but fansliders should be useful without
xcomposite. Otherwise we damn phat-enabled apps.

> I'll work on making them a bit faster if possible anyway. Though i
> think i'm keeping the roundness ;)

Keeping it is ok, forcing it is not. Please make it optional! After all
user has the power to choose style, no? Even MS operating systems are
themable these days.

-- 
Nedko Arnaudov <GnuPG KeyID: DE1716B0>
-------------- next part --------------
A non-text attachment was scrubbed...
Name: not available
Type: application/pgp-signature
Size: 188 bytes
Desc: not available
URL: <https://lists.berlios.de/pipermail/phat-dev/attachments/20070809/81f09102/attachment.pgp>

From zenadsl6252 at zen.co.uk  Thu Aug 16 08:52:39 2007
From: zenadsl6252 at zen.co.uk (pete shorthose)
Date: Thu, 16 Aug 2007 07:52:39 +0100
Subject: [Phat-dev] phatrange and range widgets
In-Reply-To: <87fy2yqkau.fsf@arnaudov.name>
References: <20070803085602.d0b9c72a.zenadsl6252@zen.co.uk>
	<87y7gtdnks.fsf@arnaudov.name>
	<20070803101331.dccf1de6.zenadsl6252@zen.co.uk>
	<87fy2yqkau.fsf@arnaudov.name>
Message-ID: <1187247159.17595.248.camel@one>

On Sun, 2007-08-05 at 14:42 +0300, Nedko Arnaudov wrote: 

> i've commited some work on phatrange and phatknob. in particular i
> changed code in phatknob that directly used adjustment with code that
> deals with abstracted "adjustment" with 0..1 range. I'd be glad if
> someone reviews my changes before i make more, just to ensure i'm not
> out of touch.

it makes sense to me. the widgets should only interact with the
mapper or it's derived values. some widgets may need to 
access the real value for display purposes but i don't see that
being a problem. 

> i have major problem with lacking ui user use cases and specification
> how things (should) work.



> Some code i saw in phatknob is obviously
> broken, 

which parts?

> some is commented out and i cannot fix things without knowledge
> how it should work. 

can't help if we don't know which parts. the list is
the best way to resolve these issues.

> i know this is work in progress but we should at
> least document what are our goals. i think we should put this info in
> the wiki associated with phat project.

this doesn't really work with our current modus operandi. 

you can't document something until you have decided 
what form it will take. if you need the goals before you
write the code then you have to plan in advance. the 
problem is, we haven't been doing that. 
instead, what we do is closer to rapid prototyping. we
propose solutions to problems as they arise, implement
them, check the implementation for suitability and go
from there.

this piecemeal approach my appear chaotic and inelegant but
it best suits the limited and intermittent resources we 
have at our disposal.

it allows us to move phat forward in short jumps and 
starts rather than an inexorable and orchestrated advance.
anything that demands an extended commitment is bound 
to fail because phat is an ancillary project that competes
for time with primary projects, not to mention all that
tedious real life stuff.

>  i talked with thorwil about knobs
> in particular and i saw his try for this in his blog too and he said
> we have serious discrepancies about knobs ui user use. we should
> document them and take a plan to handle them. 

i think this is already resolved (in as much as it can be)
the configurable input mapping should allow people to choose 
their preferred method. this is a deal breaker for me so 
if it's not resolved then we have problems. if you have 
more to add then we should run it past loki again.

> as for developer use of
> widgets we lack documentation too and this is serious obstacle when
> changing code (we dont want to strip existing phat-iazed projects,
> right?). we should have use cases (developer point of view) and list of
> projects using phat so they can be checked for compatibility issues
> until project gets stable and coherent enough for other/new projects to
> stay in line with.
> 
> So let start the list, and move it to wiki later:
>  * zynjacku (through python bindings)
>  * specimen
>  * khagan (through python bindings)
>  * jack_mixer (through python bindings)
>  * demo programs budnled with phat

we pretty much decided to ignore this issue for now.

as legacies go, we don't have one. the only client
application that is not owned by a phat developer is
specimen. to complete the roster, i offered to keep
specimen in sync with changes to phat.

i've been working under the assumption that we can do
what the hell we like up until the next release. 
at that point, the new features stand a good chance
of attracting new users and building a genuinely
unmanageable legacy.

it's one of them there windows of opportunity.

i don't envisage any changes that will damage the viability of
phat as a solution for any of it's client applications.
a knob will still be a knob, a slider a slider etc. it will
just be a case of updating the client applications to
suit any changes.


> I've made some analysis of developer use cases and come to some
> specification:
>  * simplest use, no gtkadjustments, through accessing widget methods
>    signals directly. i.e. knob_get_value(), connect to knob
>    value-changed signal.
>  * gtkadjustments for more advanced use with two subcases:
>   * supply existing external gtkadjustment
>   * expose our internal gtkadjustment for use somewhere else

if you have the time and motivation to draw up use cases
then all the better.

> In past I fixed some bugs that were some features not working in all use
> cases. I beleive defining them will improve our code base in future and
> will help testing too.

no complaints :)

> Now how this interacts with phatrange? In my vision so far direct access
> methods should be implemented as proxy code to phatrange and not
> directly interacting with widget code and thus it may be possible to use
> some hairy macro to define them in all widgets. we need this because
> gobject model does not support method inheritance, or i am wrong?

i'm not sure. we can chain up to access virtual parent
functions?. (cast the object to it's parent type)

> All gtkadjustment-less methods are implemented in phatrange by operating
> on gtkadjustment referenced in it.
> 
> I'm still thinking about what is best way for interoperation between
> gtkadjustment and mapper object. in particular, mapper, at least one i
> have currently (monothonic linear spline), has valid range and is
> somewhat incompatible with change of it, caused by external
> gtkadjustment. Do you think we need to support external gtkadjustments
> when we have mapper? I'd say no. Logarithm also has input restritions
> too, thus rendering -50..0 gtkadjustment unusable. At least directly,
> but i think mapper should operate on real range not artificial one, like
> (0..1).

are there any cases where we cannot detect and translate 
problematic ranges? if there are or the detection and 
translation is too expensive then we are a bit screwed.

> After more inspection of phatknob and those concept discrepancies we
> have, i now beleive we should come with configuration system in next
> release. I propose (and have motivation to work on) class code
> interacting with gconf. In particular I want to start with radial/linear
> knob behaviour, always with left mouse button.

this should be configurable. it's the only way we can accommodate 
different user and developer preferences. (IOW, it's the only
way we can prevent me and thorsten from killing each other :P )

i'd like to see targets (linear control, absolute control, menu popup
etc) be mappable to input combinations (buttons 1 - 5, and modifiers)

> More configuration
> candidates are welcome. Lets collect them in this thread, I'll put them
> on wiki once we have plan.

cool.


sorry for the late reply. bit busy atm and every time i tried to 
reply, i ended up writing war and peace.
gotta work on my terseness
:/

cheers,
pete.




From nedko at arnaudov.name  Sat Aug 25 17:04:54 2007
From: nedko at arnaudov.name (Nedko Arnaudov)
Date: Sat, 25 Aug 2007 18:04:54 +0300
Subject: [Phat-dev] phatrange and range widgets
In-Reply-To: <1187247159.17595.248.camel@one> (pete shorthose's message of
	"Thu, 16 Aug 2007 07:52:39 +0100")
References: <20070803085602.d0b9c72a.zenadsl6252@zen.co.uk>
	<87y7gtdnks.fsf@arnaudov.name>
	<20070803101331.dccf1de6.zenadsl6252@zen.co.uk>
	<87fy2yqkau.fsf@arnaudov.name> <1187247159.17595.248.camel@one>
Message-ID: <87r6lrzmcp.fsf@arnaudov.name>

pete shorthose <zenadsl6252 at zen.co.uk> writes:

>> i have major problem with lacking ui user use cases and specification
>> how things (should) work.
>
>> Some code i saw in phatknob is obviously
>> broken, 
>
> which parts?

alternative (linear?) adjsutment with mouse button 3
I've not investigated further but it does not work here.

>>  i talked with thorwil about knobs
>> in particular and i saw his try for this in his blog too and he said
>> we have serious discrepancies about knobs ui user use. we should
>> document them and take a plan to handle them. 
>
> i think this is already resolved (in as much as it can be)
> the configurable input mapping should allow people to choose 
> their preferred method. this is a deal breaker for me so 
> if it's not resolved then we have problems. if you have 
> more to add then we should run it past loki again.

allow people to choose - i agree (see below), but the point is that we
need behaviours to choose from defined. Do you agree with definitions
posted in thorwil blog? Or we have them documented elsewere?

>> Now how this interacts with phatrange? In my vision so far direct access
>> methods should be implemented as proxy code to phatrange and not
>> directly interacting with widget code and thus it may be possible to use
>> some hairy macro to define them in all widgets. we need this because
>> gobject model does not support method inheritance, or i am wrong?
>
> i'm not sure. we can chain up to access virtual parent
> functions?. (cast the object to it's parent type)

so this needs more investigation, i'm concerned for pyphat in particular

>> All gtkadjustment-less methods are implemented in phatrange by operating
>> on gtkadjustment referenced in it.
>> 
>> I'm still thinking about what is best way for interoperation between
>> gtkadjustment and mapper object. in particular, mapper, at least one i
>> have currently (monothonic linear spline), has valid range and is
>> somewhat incompatible with change of it, caused by external
>> gtkadjustment. Do you think we need to support external gtkadjustments
>> when we have mapper? I'd say no. Logarithm also has input restritions
>> too, thus rendering -50..0 gtkadjustment unusable. At least directly,
>> but i think mapper should operate on real range not artificial one, like
>> (0..1).
>
> are there any cases where we cannot detect and translate 
> problematic ranges? if there are or the detection and 
> translation is too expensive then we are a bit screwed.

We can detect but i doubt we can translate. So we can reject external
adjustment if it does not apply, but then, why someone would want
external adjustment at all?

>> After more inspection of phatknob and those concept discrepancies we
>> have, i now beleive we should come with configuration system in next
>> release. I propose (and have motivation to work on) class code
>> interacting with gconf. In particular I want to start with radial/linear
>> knob behaviour, always with left mouse button.
>
> this should be configurable. it's the only way we can accommodate 
> different user and developer preferences. (IOW, it's the only
> way we can prevent me and thorsten from killing each other :P )
>
> i'd like to see targets (linear control, absolute control, menu popup
> etc) be mappable to input combinations (buttons 1 - 5, and modifiers)
>
>> More configuration
>> candidates are welcome. Lets collect them in this thread, I'll put them
>> on wiki once we have plan.

I think we should have manual value input configurable too:

So far list of things that need to be configurable are:
 * context menu popup
 * linear control
 * radial control
 * absolute control
 * manual input (edit box to entr value with keyboard)

each mappable to mouse buttons 1-5 with modifiers (including double
click as option). mappings are optional i.e. if not configured they
are not available.

Mappings should be overridable by program (developer) using the widget.

I'm somewhat sceptical someone will want more than one method of mouse
control active. So maybe it is better to have mouse drag mappable to
button and have mouse drag behaviour as additional property.

-- 
Nedko Arnaudov <GnuPG KeyID: DE1716B0>
-------------- next part --------------
A non-text attachment was scrubbed...
Name: not available
Type: application/pgp-signature
Size: 188 bytes
Desc: not available
URL: <https://lists.berlios.de/pipermail/phat-dev/attachments/20070825/271a76d5/attachment.pgp>

From zenadsl6252 at zen.co.uk  Mon Aug 27 01:22:11 2007
From: zenadsl6252 at zen.co.uk (pete shorthose)
Date: Mon, 27 Aug 2007 00:22:11 +0100
Subject: [Phat-dev] fwd: Slightly newer meterbridge code
Message-ID: <1188170531.18185.12.camel@one>

i asked damon to forward his last changes to the meters and here they
are (much delayed by me, sorta forgot i'd received it)

original email from damon follows:

   Here's my slightly newer code, if you want to use some of it:
            http://www.karuna.eclipse.co.uk/phat/myphat2.tgz
        
        I've changed the VU meter to use a cached surface for redrawing,
        and to
        only redraw the parts necessary. It is about 5 times faster. The
        same
        things could be done for the other meters.
        
        I also changed the VU meter's graphic, replacing the blotchy
        background
        with a single color. 
        
        Damon
        
        
note: i've uploaded it to my webspace too, where it will stay until
we've done something with it.

http://www.zenadsl6252.zen.co.uk/damons-meter-updates/myphat2.tgz



cheers,
pete.



From loki.davison at gmail.com  Wed Aug 29 15:21:00 2007
From: loki.davison at gmail.com (Loki Davison)
Date: Wed, 29 Aug 2007 22:21:00 +0900
Subject: [Phat-dev] fwd: Slightly newer meterbridge code
In-Reply-To: <1188170531.18185.12.camel@one>
References: <1188170531.18185.12.camel@one>
Message-ID: <ec9314860708290621k43755addqedf4226b150622d@mail.gmail.com>

On 8/27/07, pete shorthose <zenadsl6252 at zen.co.uk> wrote:
> i asked damon to forward his last changes to the meters and here they
> are (much delayed by me, sorta forgot i'd received it)
>
>


arrg, i actually have this email as well! ;) I'll get back to some
coding probably next week when i have a computer and an apartment
again... Though at least internet access isn't an issue when you move
to south korea ;) Attack of the killer kim chi!!!

Loki


