<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<HTML>
 <HEAD>
   <TITLE> [Phat-dev] phat knob changes
   </TITLE>
   <LINK REL="Index" HREF="http://lists.berlios.de/pipermail/phat-dev/2007-July/index.html" >
   <LINK REL="made" HREF="mailto:phat-dev%40lists.berlios.de?Subject=Re%3A%20%5BPhat-dev%5D%20phat%20knob%20changes&In-Reply-To=%3C1184285382.18935.37.camel%40majesterium%3E">
   <META NAME="robots" CONTENT="index,nofollow">
   <style type="text/css">
       pre {
           white-space: pre-wrap;       /* css-2.1, curent FF, Opera, Safari */
           }
   </style>
   <META http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=us-ascii">
   <LINK REL="Previous"  HREF="000132.html">
   <LINK REL="Next"  HREF="000137.html">
 </HEAD>
 <BODY BGCOLOR="#ffffff">
   <H1>[Phat-dev] phat knob changes</H1>
    <B>pete shorthose</B> 
    <A HREF="mailto:phat-dev%40lists.berlios.de?Subject=Re%3A%20%5BPhat-dev%5D%20phat%20knob%20changes&In-Reply-To=%3C1184285382.18935.37.camel%40majesterium%3E"
       TITLE="[Phat-dev] phat knob changes">zenadsl6252 at zen.co.uk
       </A><BR>
    <I>Fri Jul 13 02:09:42 CEST 2007</I>
    <P><UL>
        <LI>Previous message: <A HREF="000132.html">[Phat-dev] phat knob changes
</A></li>
        <LI>Next message: <A HREF="000137.html">[Phat-dev] phat knob changes
</A></li>
         <LI> <B>Messages sorted by:</B> 
              <a href="date.html#134">[ date ]</a>
              <a href="thread.html#134">[ thread ]</a>
              <a href="subject.html#134">[ subject ]</a>
              <a href="author.html#134">[ author ]</a>
         </LI>
       </UL>
    <HR>  
<!--beginarticle-->
<PRE>On Fri, 2007-07-13 at 01:26 +0200, <A HREF="https://lists.berlios.de/mailman/listinfo/phat-dev">torbenh at gmx.de</A> wrote:
&gt;<i> On Thu, Jul 12, 2007 at 09:56:53PM +0100, pete shorthose wrote:
</I>&gt;<i> &gt; On Thu, 2007-07-12 at 19:29 +0200, <A HREF="https://lists.berlios.de/mailman/listinfo/phat-dev">torbenh at gmx.de</A> wrote:
</I>&gt;<i> &gt; &gt; On Fri, Jul 13, 2007 at 01:26:09AM +1000, Loki Davison wrote:
</I>&gt;<i> &gt; &gt; &gt; On 7/13/07, pete shorthose &lt;<A HREF="https://lists.berlios.de/mailman/listinfo/phat-dev">zenadsl6252 at zen.co.uk</A>&gt; wrote:
</I>&gt;<i> &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; looks like i didn't break the log code.
</I>&gt;<i> &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; which is nice.
</I>&gt;<i> &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;
</I>&gt;<i> &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; loki, in case i wasn't clear, i'm not going to
</I>&gt;<i> &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; commit until i hear from you whether you
</I>&gt;<i> &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; are ok with the bulk commit.
</I>&gt;<i> &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;
</I>&gt;<i> &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; either way, knobs will work properly in glade
</I>&gt;<i> &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; as soon as it's committed :)
</I>&gt;<i> &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;
</I>&gt;<i> &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; pete.
</I>&gt;<i> &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;
</I>&gt;<i> &gt; &gt; &gt; 
</I>&gt;<i> &gt; &gt; &gt; Go for it. I'll need to fix the new slider to be in line with this as
</I>&gt;<i> &gt; &gt; &gt; i based the gtk class stuff off the knob!! lol, thought it was the
</I>&gt;<i> &gt; &gt; &gt; most recent/least dodgy.
</I>&gt;<i> &gt; &gt; 
</I>&gt;<i> &gt; &gt; nice work pete.
</I>&gt;<i> &gt; &gt; i will try to derive the knob from GtkRange, as soon as you commit.
</I>&gt;<i> &gt; &gt; then the code for the adjustment handling would also fade away.
</I>&gt;<i> &gt; 
</I>&gt;<i> &gt; good idea. there's still some superfluous junk in there but you
</I>&gt;<i> &gt; can't have everything and i think it's a better bet than GtkWidget on
</I>&gt;<i> &gt; balance.
</I>&gt;<i> &gt; 
</I>&gt;<i> &gt; &gt; however for the PhatKnob and PhatFanSliders we need to provide backwards compatibility.
</I>&gt;<i> &gt; 
</I>&gt;<i> &gt; we discussed this recently and the consensus seemed to be that 
</I>&gt;<i> &gt; it'd be better to rip up the API and bump the library version.
</I>&gt;<i> &gt; loki is the only known user of PhatKnob and i'll happily update anyone's
</I>&gt;<i> &gt; code to suit a changed PhatFanSlider. (probably only specimen?)
</I>&gt;<i> &gt; normally this kind of thing is a big taboo but you'll rarely get 
</I>&gt;<i> &gt; a better set of mitigating circumstances than these.
</I>&gt;<i> 
</I>&gt;<i> i dont seem to catch you guys on irc... are you on #lad ?
</I>&gt;<i> or is there a #phat channel ?
</I>
no #phat channel or significant #lad discussion. you are in the right
place,
the discussion started here:

<A HREF="https://lists.berlios.de/pipermail/phat-dev/2007-June/000004.html">https://lists.berlios.de/pipermail/phat-dev/2007-June/000004.html</A>

i'd be happy to idle in a #phat channel but we risk privatising the
debate.

&gt;<i> &gt; &gt; it would also be nice to have the widget window removed from the knob
</I>&gt;<i> &gt; &gt; and use the parents window. i would go for this...
</I>&gt;<i> &gt; 
</I>&gt;<i> &gt; what are the benefits / drawbacks of doing so?
</I>&gt;<i> &gt; i assume we still need a window (event box?) for mouse updates, tooltips
</I>&gt;<i> &gt; and the like
</I>&gt;<i> &gt; and tricks like backing store would no longer be applicable..
</I>&gt;<i> 
</I>&gt;<i> but not on every single widget.
</I>&gt;<i> i removed the window from my tech-knob, and now the transparency is
</I>&gt;<i> working nicely.
</I>&gt;<i> i think there is a problem with different windows.
</I>&gt;<i> i will check... 
</I>
ok. i implemented a static gui for controlling the unreleased 
amsynth dssi plugin a while ago. i scrapped the gui in the
end but i did find that i had to manually grab and set the background
of the knobs. not nice. (i think i sent you a patch at the time
but you were pretty busy) if we can get automatic
transparency (ie: that the designated background is
reflected in transparent frame areas), then i'd be very happy, but
if it limited the circumstances in which i could use the knob,
not so much with the happiness,

&gt;<i> i just started to use pycairo to render some lemur style knobs.
</I>&gt;<i> thinking about how to incorporate this into a knob.
</I>&gt;<i> but i will use the step of going through a pixmap and using the pixmap
</I>&gt;<i> knobs for this first...
</I>
i have a functional cairo knob waiting to be cleaned up
and imported but it's derived from a common knob base class.
see the above archived list thread for more on that.

it looks a bit shitty but that's the problem, the code is static.
<A HREF="http://www.zenadsl6252.zen.co.uk/cairo-knob-glade.png">http://www.zenadsl6252.zen.co.uk/cairo-knob-glade.png</A>

we discussed the possibility of creating a plugin/callback
system with an API so that people can use the common 
knob API but effectively supply their own expose function.

it seems the best way to introduce some visual flexibility in
lieu of a mark up language and interpreter for dynamic 
cairo graphics. whether people would use it or not, i dunno.

the same applies to the other native widgets.

&gt;<i> any ideas where to commit this code ?
</I>&gt;<i> its just a small python script which outputs a bunch of pngs.
</I>
not sure.  how about a /misc/devname/ convention
for storing pertinent code that isn't part of phat?

eg /misc/torben/ ?

loki is the decider so i guess do it quick before he says no.

:<i>P
</I>
(there's always svn revert)

pete.


</PRE>

<!--endarticle-->
    <HR>
    <P><UL>
        <!--threads-->
	<LI>Previous message: <A HREF="000132.html">[Phat-dev] phat knob changes
</A></li>
	<LI>Next message: <A HREF="000137.html">[Phat-dev] phat knob changes
</A></li>
         <LI> <B>Messages sorted by:</B> 
              <a href="date.html#134">[ date ]</a>
              <a href="thread.html#134">[ thread ]</a>
              <a href="subject.html#134">[ subject ]</a>
              <a href="author.html#134">[ author ]</a>
         </LI>
       </UL>

<hr>
<a href="https://lists.berlios.de/mailman/listinfo/phat-dev">More information about the Phat-dev
mailing list</a><br>
</body></html>
